# Movie-Analysis
Analyzing a movie dataset with Python programming language.

## About the Movie Dataset
This dataset contains comprehensive information on a diverse collection of films, including attributes such as name, genre, release year, runtime, director, budget, country, ratings and score.
- name: title of the movie.
- rating: rating given by viewers.
- genre: list of genres the movie belongs to.
- realesed_year: date when the movie was released.
- score: rating scores given by the viewers.
- vote: total count of votes received for the movie.
- director: the name of the person who directs the movie
- writer:the name of the movie writer.
- budget: budget allocated for the movie. 
- gross: total gross generated by the movie.
- country:name of country in the movie.
- company: name of production company involved in the movie
- runtime: duration of the movie in minutes.

## Data source: I got the dataset from kaggle.

## Problem Statement:
Derive insights, trends, correlations, and patterns within the film industry.

## Problem Objectives:
- Which movies have a runtime greater than 180 minutes?
- In which year was the average rating the highest?
- In which year was the average budget the highest?
- What is the average rating of the top 10 directors?
- Which country has the highest total gross?
- Which country has the highest average rating?
- What are the top 10 movies with the highest gross?
- Which genre has the highest total gross?
- What is the correlation between budget and gross?
- Plot a scatter plot of budget versus gross.
- What are the titles and runtimes of the top 10 longest movies?
- How many movies were released in each year?
- What is the most popular movie title with the highest budget and gross?
- What is the most unpopular movie title with the lowest budget and gross?
- What is the highest average gross per year?
- What is the total number of genres for movies released?
- What is the total number of rating categories?

## Data Cleaning steps:
- imported Python libraries
- read in the data
- view the first 5 rows of the dataset
- display the total rows and columns
- get information about dataset
- get the statistic about the dataset
- check for missing value
- visualize the value of missing values
- get the missing value in percentage to be rounded up to 2decimal places
- drop/delete all missing values
- check for duplicate values
- check data types for each column
- display title of of each column to have better understanding on what they represent

## Data Manipultion:
- change the data to dataframe.
- change the data type of budget, votes, gross and runtime to int data type.
- extract year from the released date
- extract month from the released date
- sort the dataframe by gross in descending order
- set the display option to view all the rows of the dataframe
- get the range of movie score
- display the title of the movie having runtime >= 180
- Lastly, Analysed and visualized all the problem objectives listed above.

## Data Insights
- The scores for movies range from 1.9 to 9.3, but the highest score given by viewers is 6.4.
- 2013 had the highest number of votes.
- Avatar movie has the highest gross, check visualization for the other 9.
- Year 2020 had the highest movie budget and highest gross.
- Movie with the highest budget is avengers end game
- Movie with the lowest budget is following
- Roberto Benigni is the director with the highest rating.
- Gettysburg has the highest lengthy runtime of 271 minutes.
- 2002 had the highest number of movie released
- There is high correllation between the budget and the gross i.e the higher the budget the higher the gross.
- Movie is produced most in United Kingdom, folowed by United state and Canada.
- Malta is the country with the highest gross followed by NewZealand.
- The most produced genre is comedy, followed by action, drama, and crime.
- genre family has the highest gross, folowed by animation, action and adventure.

## Recommendations
- Investigate factors influencing these ratings, such as movie quality, genre preferences, or rating trends.
- Look into and improve marketing strategies, production quality, and audience reception.
- Understanding what sets a diector could offer into creating successful films and improving rating.
